# System Architecture
Create overall system architecture and programmable software interface, to be called FOLIOS, that drives hardware integrating pneumatic motion control, sound, pixel-based displays and other lighting. 

# Summary of Problem and Proposed Solution
Lighting, sound, and motion control systems have evolved dramatically since most current floats were introduced. For current floats, lighting is generally static - it may blink or change color but it is generally not programmable and cannot be synchronized to music or mechanical movement. Sound systems are independent of lighting and motion control. Finally, all floats have slightly different lighting, sound and motion control systems. 

What is needed is a single integrated system that can be applied to all FOL parade floats. 

A basic benchtop demo of an integrated system has been tested. This internship will evaluate different configurations in a bench test environment, and then propose a standard architecture for next gen FOL parade float integrated lighting, sound, and movement control.

# Project Activities
- Replicate the bench test POC for lighting, sound and movement control outlined in the FOL Technical Teach-in documentation dated 5/11/2021. 
- Evaluate different open-source options for lighting/sound/movement synchronization, including VixenLights and xLights. Recommend the preferred option for the FOLIOS architecture. (Note that multiple on-line tutorials are available for both VixenLights and xlights.
- Build a scale mockup of a parade float using FOLIOS.
- Implement one parade float using FOLIOS.
- Document FOLIOS and publish code an documentation on GitHub

# Deliverables
- Bench test demo based on prior POC.
- Recommended FOLIOS architecture and roadmap for future functionality. The architecture should include “modules” that can be easily reproduced across parade floats, e.g. modules for 
simple DC pneumatic animatronic control
-- AC motor control
-- Sound control
-- Pixel lighting control of several base shapes: shapes with pixels inserted including Christmas trees, wreaths, candy canes and other Christmas decorations, pixel grid word displays, pixel grid-based graphics. See examples on YouTube, including this.
-- DMX lighting control (e.g. for flood lights on the dog float)
- Scale model demo of a-e above
- Implementation of one parade float using an MVP version of FOLIOS
- Initial project documentation

# Proposed Technology
Rasberry Pi, Arduino Mega w/ DMX shield, lighting control using VixenLights or xLights. WiFi or ethernet integration. Pixel-based and DMX lights. 8 or 16 relay controllers for AC and DC circuit control. See detailed BOM and other documentation in the FOL Technical Teach-in documentation dated 5/11/2021.  

# Technical Skills Required
Rasberry Pi and Arduino programming skills.

# Proposed Implementation
## Phase I
Bench test of prior POC, and evaluation of different open-source options for lighting/sound/movement synchronization. 

## Phase II
Build a scale model of a parade float using FOLIOS and all elements of lighting, sound and movement synchronization.

## Phase III
Implementation of FOLIOS on one parade float - either the dog band, Wizard of Oz, or the lead parade float (for lighting and sound synchronization only).

# Timeline
Phase I and II should be implemented no later than September. 

Stretch goal - if possible, a FOLIOS MVP should be ready for Phase III before the 2021 FOL Parade. 

# Budget
TBD, depending on cost of pixel lighting for the scale model. 
