# Summary of Problem

There are two floats targeted for these activities: one existing, one new. This could take 1-2 artistically-skilled, design-oriented people.

- Existing Float: “Rock Band”
The Rock Band float is an animatronic float in need of artistic upgrade. While the animatronics and lights and music are sort of cool, there is no coherence to the design and it does not contribute to the holiday spirit. There are two objectives to the refresh project:
Come up with, get buy-in to and execute a coherent design for this year’s parade.
If possible, leverage the integrated control of sound, lights and motion enabled by FOLIOS.

- New Float: “Wizard of Oz”
The notion of a Wizard of Oz float has been discussed in recent years and the board is inclined to repurpose an older float for this purpose. The goal of this project is to design a float from the ground up that delivers a visual feast on the theme while fully leveraging the design possibilities enabled by FOLIOS. This should be first demonstrated in a scale model prototype and then executed on the float.

# Project Activities
Two floats happening in parallel: Update an existing “Band” float + design a new “Wizard of Oz” float to demonstrate what is possible using FOLIOS. The project goal is to generate concepts of each float, get board buy-in to the concepts, then execute both float designs.

# Deliverables
Two working floats by Thanksgiving week 2021.

# Timeline
Each of the deliverables should be completed in 1-2 two-week sprints. The full schedule will be worked out after the interns meet to plan the projects. The below gives a general idea of how the work could be staged:
- Sprint 1: Create 3 concept mockups of Band float update, present concepts to FOL board of directors, obtain approval on one of the concepts.
- Sprint 2: Create a concept mockup of the new Oz float taking into account the design possibilities enabled by FOLIOS-integrated light, sound and movement.
- Sprint 3: Flesh out Band float concept approved by board of directors, create a materials and budget estimate, present to and obtain approval for budget from board of directors.
- Sprint 4: Build 3’x5’ scale model of Oz float to physically demonstrate the integrated and orchestrated float light, sound and movement made possible with FOLIOS.
- Sprint 5: Execute Band float update with maintenance team, including graphics and painting.
- Sprint 6: Physically integrate Oz float model with working FOLIOS prototype. Present to the FOL board of directors.
- Sprint 7: Execute Wizard float update with maintenance team, including light, sound and motion control, graphics and painting.
