# Pneumatic Controller

Create custom PCB for float mechanical/movement/light control (eventually integrating this subsystem into a single FOLIOS control PCB):

# Summary of Problem and Proposed Solution

Pneumatic control of the “dog band” float is controlled by relays which are controlled by analog relays. There is no backup for the pneumatic relay control. The purpose of this project is to create a backup controller using 1-2 Arduinos and 8-Relay controllers. 

# Project Activities

Measure timing of movements of all dogs in the band, noting which pneumatics control which movements. The purpose of measuring timing is to allow control of the new relays to be programmed into the Arduino
- Demonstrate programming the Arduino to control a single pneumatic circuit
- Create and program a timing circuit to control all movements, without connecting the relays to the pneumatic systems
- Implement the circuit in a hand-soldered board, and design a custom circuit board if it can be done at a reasonable cost.
- Connect the Arduino/relay controller system to demonstrate that it can work as a backup controller 

# Deliverables
- Timing measurements for current dog movements.
- Hardwired circuit board, tested as a backup for the current pneumatic controller

# Proposed Technology 
- Arduino and 8-relay controller board

# Technical Skills Required
- Arduino programming, basic soldering

# Proposed Implementation
- Phase I
-- The first phase will be to measure current float movement timing and demonstrate understanding of using an arduino to control a pneumatic circuit - steps 1-2 above
- Phase II
-- The second phase of the project will be to create and program a circuit to control all movements, and then to implement this circuit in a hand-soldered board, demonstrating that this board can function as a backup controller.
- Phase III
-- Implement the board in a custom PCB, if this can be done at a reasonable cost.

# Timeline
Phase I should be completed in a single sprint of two weeks. Phase II should be completed in 2-3 two-week sprints. 

# Budget
Maximum $200
