# Sound Controller
Create custom PCB for float audio control (eventually integrating this subsystem into a single FOLIOS control PCB):

# Summary of Problem and Proposed Solution
Current sound controllers used by 20+ Festival of Lights (FOL) parade floats are over 15 years old. If a sound controller for a parade float breaks, there are no backup controllers, and the float would have to be removed from the parade or used without sound. 
This project will create a replacement sound controller - initially replacing current functionality for all floats, and then successively adding functionality in phased versions for: 1) pre-amp capability to improve sound quality, and 2) a display to allow selection of a song from a catalog of songs loaded via a MMC card. 

# Project Activities

## Phase I
- Understand and replicate breadboard implementation of sound controller, based on initial prototype that was created by FOL technical staff. Understand the Arduino software used for the sound controller.
- Design a circuit board for breadboard circuit, using Autodesk EAGLE software. 
- Build three prototypes, including the housing. Order prototype PCBs based on the EAGLE circuit design and all other parts required for two (3) prototypes. It should be possible to insert the memory card without opening the housing, i.e. the memory card board should be mounted such that the connector protrudes from the housing. 

## Phase II
- Add pre-amp. Using one of the three prototypes, add the pre-amp functionality without the housing. Demonstrate improvement in sound with the pre-amp on one of the parade floats. 
- Add display for song selection. Add a simple display and toggle button for song selection. Program the Arduino to allow toggling through a list of songs and selecting a song to be played. 

## Phase III
- Create a fully housed sound controller prototype, that includes the controller card, pre-amp, display and toggle button. 

# Deliverables
- Demonstration of current sound controller breadboard prototype and software.
- Circuit board design in EAGLE
- Three working housed prototypes, without pre-amp or selection display, including Bill of Materials (BOM), schematic and full documentation. 
- One working prototype (unhoused) including pre-amp
- Unhoused prototype from (4) modified to add display and toggle button
- Fully housed prototype, including controller card, pre-amp, display and toggle button. 

# Proposed Technology 
- Nano, DFPlayer Mini. For full BOM and circuit design of the current prototype, see the FOL Technical Teach-in documentation dated 5/11/2021. 

# Technical Skills Required
- Arduino programming, Autodesk EAGLE circuit design, basic soldering, some mechanical skills for mounting the device in a housing.

# Proposed Implementation
The project will be completed in three phases. 
- Phase I - Create three prototypes, two of which will serve as spares for the current sound controller, and one of which will be used in Phase II and III.
- Phase II - Add the pre-amp and display for song selection
- Phase III - Create a fully housed prototype for the sound controller, including the pre-amp and display for song selection. 

Phase one is the highest priority, so that we have spares for the current sound controllers on parade floats. 

On successful completion of Phase III, twenty replacement sound controllers will be built for all parade floats to replace the current controllers. 

# Timeline
Each of the deliverables should be completed in 1-2 two-week sprints. The full schedule will be worked out after the interns review the project documentation.

# Budget
The budget for this project will be a maximum of $250, depending on the cost of creating custom circuit boards for the prototypes. 
